### 16. A new general equilibrium model
1. Xiang, YL; Smith, MJ; Logie, M
2. APPL OPTIMIZAT
> In this paper we present a new general equilibrium model appropriate for multi-modal networks. A solution of the model gives the equilibrium distribution of travellers and vehicles over a transportation network. The model is expressed in terms of inverse cost-flow functions; and delays are explicitly modelled. The paper outlines an equilibration algorithm and convergence results for a small network are provided. The equilibrium model has been designed in such a way that optimisation procedures may naturally be added to the equilibration algorithm.
### 30. A large scale stochastic multi-class schedule-based transit model with random coefficients - Implementation and algorithms
1. Nielsen, OA
2. OPER RES COMPUT SCI
> Public transport assignment models are increasing in complexity in order to describe passengers' route choices as detailed and correctly as possible. Important trends in the development are 1) schedule-based models, 2) inclusion of feeder modes, 3) use of stochastic components to describe differences in passengers' preferences within and between trip purposes and classes, as well as to describe non-explained variation within a utility theory framework, and 4) consideration of capacity problems at coach level, system level and terminal level. In the East Denmark Model, such a large-scale transit assignment model was developed and estimated within a Stochastic User Equilibrium framework solved by the Method of Successive Averages. The model covered a metropolitan area including its hinterland (2,000 lines, 50,000 runs, 300,000 stops, and 1 million nodes and 10 million arcs in the calculation graph). The paper outlines the experiences from this project, and the subsequent research and development using the case as 'modelling laboratory'. The main focus of the paper is to describe the estimation of the utility functions, and to discuss and suggest optimisation of the solution algorithm.
### 41. Advanced pricing and rationing policies for large scale multimodal networks
1. Gentile, G; Papola, N; Persia, L
2. TRANSPORT RES A-POL
> The applying of simplified schemes, such as cordon pricing, as second-best solution to the toll network design problem is investigated here in the context of multiclass traffic assignment on multimodal networks. To this end a suitable equilibrium model has been developed, together with an efficient algorithm capable of simulating large scale networks in quite reasonable computer time. This model implements the theoretical framework proposed in a previous work on the toll optimization problem, where the validity of marginal cost pricing for the context at hand is stated. Application of the model to the real case of Rome shows us, not only that on multimodal networks a relevant share (up to 20%) of the maximum improvements in terms of social welfare achievable with marginal cost pricing can in fact be obtained through cordon pricing, but also that in practical terms rationing is a valid alternative to pricing, thus getting around some of the relevant questions (theoretical, technical, social) the latter raises. As a result we propose a practical method to analyze advanced pricing and rationing policies differentiated for user categories, which enables us to compare alternative operative solutions with an upper bound on social welfare based on a solid theoretical background. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 44. A demand model with departure time choice for within-day dynamic traffic assignment
1. Bellei, Giuseppe; Gentile, Guido; Meschini, Lorenzo; Papola, Natale
2. EUR J OPER RES
> A within-clay dynamic demand model is formulated, embodying, in addition to the classic generation, distribution and modal split stages, an actual demand model taking into account departure time choice. The work focuses on this last stage, represented through an extension of the discrete choice framework to a continuous choice set. The dynamic multimodal supply and equilibrium model based on implicit path enumeration, which have been developed in previous work are outlined here, to define within-day dynamic elastic demand stochastic multimodal equilibrium as a fixed point problem on users flows and transit line frequencies. A MSA algorithm capable, in the case of Logit route choice models, of supplying equilibrium flows and frequencies on real dimension networks, is presented, as well as the specific procedures implementing the departure time choice and actual demand models. Finally, the results obtained on a test network are presented and conclusions are drawn. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
### 53. A Simulation-Based Dynamic Intermodal Network Equilibrium Algorithm
1. Chang, Elaine; Ziliaskopoulos, Athanasios
2. nan
> This paper introduces a Variational Inequality ( VI) formulation for the time-dependent combined mode split and traffic assignment problem. Travel costs are represented by generalized cost functions and mode choices are deterministically obtained based on assignment to intermodal least cost paths without accounting for possible randomness in travelers' choices. The intermodal user equilibrium (IUE) is estimated using an inner approximation (IA) algorithm that results in a nonlinear program with linear constraints. The algorithm converges assuming continuous and monotonic path travel cost functions. The paths on multimodal networks are computed with an intermodal optimum path algorithm; a cell transmission-based simulator, enhanced to account for both automobile and transit vehicles, is used to estimate the path travel costs. A heuristic search approach is proposed and implemented in the VISTA simulation-based framework. Computational results are presented on example networks to test convergence and equilibrium.
### 55. Transit competitiveness in polycentric metropolitan regions
1. Casello, Jeffrey M.
2. TRANSPORT RES A-POL
> This paper analyzes the potential to, and impacts of, increasing transit modal split in a polycentric metropolitan area the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania region. Potential transit riders are preselected as those travelers whose trips begin and end in areas with transit-supportive land uses, defined as activity centers, areas of high-density employment and trip attraction. A multimodal traffic assignment model is developed and solved to quantify the generalized cost of travel by transit services and private automobile under (user) equilibrium conditions. The model predicts transit modal split by identifying the origin-destination pairs for which transit offers lower generalized cost. For those origin-destination pairs for which transit does not offer the lowest generalized cost, I compute a transit competitiveness measure, the ratio of transit generalized cost to auto generalized cost. The model is first formulated and solved for existing transit service and regional pricing schemes. Next, various transit incentives (travel time or fare reductions, increased service) and auto disincentives (higher out of pocket expenses) are proposed and their impacts on individual travel choices and system performance are quantified. The results suggest that a coordinated policy of improved transit service and some auto disincentives is necessary to achieve greater modal split and improved system efficiency in the region. Further, the research finds that two levels of coordinated transit service, between and within activity centers, are necessary to realize the greatest improvements in system performance. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 59. Dynamic micro-assignment modeling approach for integrated multimodal urban corridor management
1. Zhou, Xuesong; Mahmassani, Hani S.; Zhang, Kuilin
2. TRANSPORT RES C-EMER
> Development and analysis of demand management strategies for integrated multimodal urban corridor management requires application of a new generation of demand modeling and network analysis tools. This paper describes the development of a dynamic trip micro-assignment and (meso) simulation system that incorporates individual tripmaker choices of travel mode, departure time and route in multimodal urban transportation networks (with different travel modes such as drive alone, shared ride, bus rapid transit and metro rail). These travel choice dimensions arc integrated in a stochastic utility maximization framework that considers multiple user decision criteria such as travel time, travel cost, schedule delay, as well as travel time reliability. A variational inequality model is first proposed to describe the general stochastic dynamic traffic user equilibrium problem. For a typical case that assumes the logit-based alternative choice model, this paper develops an equivalent gap function-based optimization formulation and a heuristic iterative solution procedure. Based on a multidimensional network representation, an efficient time-dependent least cost path algorithm is embedded to generate an intermodal route choice set that recognizes time-dependent mode transfer costs and feasible mode transfer sequences. A two-stage estimation procedure that can systematically utilize historical static demand information, time-dependent link counts, as well as empirically calibrated stochastic departure time choice models is proposed to infer commuters' preferred arrival time distribution, which is important in modeling departure time choice dynamics. A case study based on a large-scale multimodal transportation network (adapted from the Baltimore-Washington corridor) is presented to illustrate the capabilities of the methodology and provide insight into the potential benefit of integrated multimodal corridor management. (C) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
### 60. The bicriterion multimodal assignment problem: Introduction, analysis, and experimental results
1. Pedersen, Christian Roed; Nielsen, Lars Relund; Andersen, Kim Allan
2. INFORMS J COMPUT
> We consider the bicriterion multimodal assignment problem, which is a new generalization of the classical linear assignment problem. A two-phase solution method using an effective ranking scheme is presented. The algorithm is valid for generating all nondominated criterion points or an approximation. Extensive computational results are conducted on a large library of test instances to test the performance of the algorithm and to identify hard test instances. Also, test results of the algorithm applied to the bicriterion assignment problem are provided.
### 61. Markovian traffic equilibrium
1. Baillon, J. -B.; Cominetti, R.
2. MATH PROGRAM
> We analyze an equilibrium model for traffic networks based on stochastic dynamic programming. In this model passengers move towards their destinations by a sequential process of arc selection based on a discrete choice model at every intermediate node in their trip. Route selection is the outcome of this sequential process while network flows correspond to the invariant measures of the underlying Markov chains. The approach may handle different discrete choice models at every node, including the possibility of mixing deterministic and stochastic distribution rules. It can also be used over a multi-modal network in order to model the simultaneous selection of mode and route, as well as to treat the case of elastic demands. We establish the existence of a unique equilibrium, which is characterized as the solution of an unconstrained strictly convex minimization problem of low dimension. We report some numerical experiences comparing the performance of the method of successive averages (MSA) and Newton's method on one small and one large network, providing a formal convergence proof for MSA.
### 62. Multimodal, multiclass stochastic dynamic traffic assignment for evaluating information provision strategies
1. Lee, Seungiae
2. J ADV TRANSPORT
> A multimodal, multiclass stochastic dynamic traffic assignment model was developed to evaluate pre-trip and enroute travel information provision strategies. Three different information strategies were examined: user optimum [UO], system optimum [SO] and mixed optimum [MO]. These information provision strategies were analyzed based on the levels of traffic congestion and market penetration rate for the information equipment. Only two modes, bus and car, were used for evaluating and calculating the modal split ratio. Several scenarios were analyzed using day-to-day and within day dynamic models. From the results analyzed, it was found that when a traffic manager provides information for drivers using the UO strategy and drivers follow the provided information absolutely, the total travel time may increases over the case with no information. Such worsening occurs when drivers switch their routes and face traffic congestion on the alternative route. This phenomenon is the 'Braess Paradox'.
### 73. An activity-based approach for scheduling multimodal transit services
1. Li, Zhi-Chun; Lam, William H. K.; Wong, S. C.; Sumalee, A.
2. TRANSPORTATION
> This paper proposes a new activity-based transit assignment model for investigating the scheduling (or timetabling) problem of transit services in multi-modal transit networks. The proposed model can be used to generate the short-term and long-term timetables of multimodal transit lines for transit operations and service planning purposes. The interaction between transit timetables and passenger activity-travel scheduling behaviors is captured by the proposed model, as the activity and travel choices of transit passengers are considered explicitly in terms of departure time choice, activity/trip chain choices, activity duration choice, transit line and mode choices. A heuristic solution algorithm which combines the Hooke-Jeeves method and an iterative supply-demand equilibrium approach is developed to solve the proposed model. Two numerical examples are presented to illustrate the differences between the activity-based approach and the traditional trip-based method, together with comparison on the effects of optimal timetables with even and uneven headways. It is shown that the passenger travel scheduling pattern derived from the activity-based approach is significantly different from that obtained by the trip-based method, and that a demand-sensitive (with uneven headway) timetable is more efficient than an even-headway timetable.
### 76. Stochastic multi-modal transport network under demand uncertainties and adverse weather condition
1. Sumalee, Agachai; Uchida, Kenetsu; Lam, William H. K.
2. TRANSPORT RES C-EMER
> This paper proposes a multi-modal transport network assignment model considering uncertainties in both demand and supply sides of the network. These uncertainties are due to adverse weather conditions with different degrees of impacts on different modes. The paper provides the derivations of mean and variance-covariance of the stochastic passenger flows and dis-utility terms involved in the route/mode choice model under the common-line framework. The risk-averse travelers are assumed to consider both the mean and variance of the random perceived travel time on each multi-modal path in their path choice decisions. The model also considers travelers' perception errors by using a Probit stochastic user equilibrium framework which is formulated as fixed point problem. A heuristic solution algorithm is proposed to solve the fixed point problem. Numerical examples are presented to illustrate the applications of the proposed model. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 83. Urban university campus transportation and parking planning through a dynamic traffic simulation and assignment approach
1. Bustillos, Brenda I.; Shelton, Jeffrey; Chiu, Yi-Chang
2. TRANSPORT PLAN TECHN
> Many urban university campuses are considered major trip attractors. Considering the multimodal and complex nature of university campus transportation planning and operation, this paper proposes a dynamic traffic simulation and assignment analysis approach and demonstrates how such a methodology can be successfully applied. Central to the research is the estimation of trip origin-destinations and the calibration of a parking lot choice model. Dynamic simulation is utilized to simulate multiple modes of transportation within the transportation network while further assigning these modes with respect to various mode-specific roadway accessibilities. A multiple vehicle-class simulation analysis for planning purposes becomes a critical capability to predict how faculty and staff who once parked within the campus core choose other nearby alternate parking lots. The results highlight the effectiveness of the proposed approach in providing integrated and reliable solutions for challenging questions that face urban university campus planners and local transportation jurisdictions.
### 97. A reliability-based traffic assignment model for multi-modal transport network under demand uncertainty
1. Fu, Xiao; Lam, William H. K.; Chen, Bi Yu
2. J ADV TRANSPORT
> In densely populated and congested urban areas, the travel times in congested multi-modal transport networks are generally varied and stochastic in practice. These stochastic travel times may be raised from day-to-day demand fluctuations and would affect travelers' route and mode choice behaviors according to their different expectations of on-time arrival. In view of these, this paper presents a reliability-based user equilibrium traffic assignment model for congested multi-modal transport networks under demand uncertainty. The stochastic bus frequency due to the unstable travel time of bus route is explicitly considered. By the proposed model, travelers' route and mode choice behaviors are intensively explored. In addition, a stochastic state-augmented multi-modal transport network is adopted in this paper to effectively model probable transfers and non-linear fare structures. A numerical example is given to illustrate the merits of the proposed model. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
### 98. A SIMULATION-BASED DYNAMIC TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT MODEL WITH COMBINED MODES
1. Meng, Meng; Shao, Chunfu; Zeng, Jingjing; Dong, Chunjiao
2. PROMET-ZAGREB
> This paper presents a dynamic traffic assignment (DTA) model for urban multi-modal transportation network by constructing a mesoscopic simulation model. Several traffic means such as private car, subway, bus and bicycle are considered in the network. The mesoscopic simulator consists of a mesoscopic supply simulator based on MesoTS model and a time-dependent demand simulator. The mode choice is simultaneously considered with the route choice based on the improved C-Logit model. The traffic assignment procedure is implemented by a time-dependent shortest path (TDSP) algorithm in which travellers choose their modes and routes based on a range of choice criteria. The model is particularly suited for appraising a variety of transportation management measures, especially for the application of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). Five example cases including OD demand level, bus frequency, parking fee, information supply and car ownership rate are designed to test the proposed simulation model through a medium-scale case study in Beijing Chaoyang District in China. Computational results illustrate excellent performance and the application of the model to analysis of urban multi-modal transportation networks.
### 103. Bus-based park-and-ride system: a stochastic model on multimodal network with congestion pricing schemes
1. Liu, Zhiyuan; Meng, Qiang
2. INT J SYST SCI
> This paper focuses on modelling the network flow equilibrium problem on a multimodal transport network with bus-based park-and-ride (P&R) system and congestion pricing charges. The multimodal network has three travel modes: auto mode, transit mode and P&R mode. A continuously distributed value-of-time is assumed to convert toll charges and transit fares to time unit, and the users' route choice behaviour is assumed to follow the probit-based stochastic user equilibrium principle with elastic demand. These two assumptions have caused randomness to the users' generalised travel times on the multimodal network. A comprehensive network framework is first defined for the flow equilibrium problem with consideration of interactions between auto flows and transit (bus) flows. Then, a fixed-point model with unique solution is proposed for the equilibrium flows, which can be solved by a convergent cost averaging method. Finally, the proposed methodology is tested by a network example.
### 105. Merging transit schedule information with a planning network to perform dynamic multimodal assignment: lessons from a case study of the Greater Toronto and Hamilton Area
1. Weiss, Adam; Mahmoud, Mohamed S.; Kucirek, Peter; Habib, Khandker Nurul
2. CAN J CIVIL ENG
> Traffic assignment has traditionally been performed using aggregate static user equilibrium approaches for a single mode. These approaches are typically favoured over more complex dynamic multimodal micro and meso-simulated models. Investigations into dynamic multimodal assignment models have shown promise, prompting interest in the adoption of complex modelling structures. The development and operation of these complex models can still be problematic, highlighting the need for efficient approaches to allow practitioners to acquire and apply these models. This paper presents a method to modify existing static auto assignment networks for dynamic multimodal assignment. To complement this, a method, which improves the overall performance of the transit routing procedure used within many assignment models, is presented. These methods were tested using data from the Greater Toronto and Hamilton Area, and result in an assignment procedure with reasonable run time and results, suggesting potential for wide spread adoption of these approaches.
### 107. Dynamic assignment with user information in multimodal networks
1. Atmani, Dihya; Lebacque, Jean-Patrick; Bhouri, Neila; Haj-Salem, Habib
2. TRANSP RES PROC
> The dynamic assignment of users has been widely studied for the road network while it is less considered for multimodal networks. In this article, we investigate the dynamic assignment of users in multimodal transportation systems while differentiating between informed and uninformed users. The problem is modeled as a multiagent system where we consider all of the modes that share the road infrastructure (private vehicles, taxis, buses, tramway, electric car sharing services), thus the users and vehicles of each mode are represented by an agent. As mentioned in the above, we consider two types of users: informed and uninformed. Our objective is to assess the impact of the presence of informed users on the dynamic assignment on the network. To do so, we provide an analytical study on the Braess paradox where we explore the possibility of improving the assignment of users through the information that is provided to them. The simulation model is cellular automata based and was executed on a multilevel network that includes a Braess paradox in order to validate the analytical results.
### 138. A path-based greedy algorithm for multi-objective transit routes design with elastic demand
1. Zarrinmehr, Amirali; Saffarzadeh, Mahmoud; Seyedabrishami, Seyedehsan; Nie, Yu Marco
2. PUBLIC TRANSPORT
> This paper is concerned with the problem of finding optimal sub-routes from a set of predefined candidate transit routes with the objectives of maximizing transit ridership as well as minimizing operational costs. The main contributions of this paper are: (1) considering transit ridership maximization in a multi-objective bi-level optimization framework; (2) proposing a greedy algorithm for the multi-objective design problem; (3) applying an efficient path-based algorithm to solve the lower level multi-modal traffic assignment problem. Numerical experiments indicate that the proposed algorithm is not only able to approximate the Pareto-optimal solutions with satisfactory accuracy, but also achieves a fast performance even for problems of real-world scale.
### 142. Gap-based transit assignment algorithm with vehicle capacity constraints: Simulation-based implementation and large-scale application
1. Verbas, Omer; Mahmassani, Hani S.; Hyland, Michael F.
2. TRANSPORT RES B-METH
> This paper presents a gap-based solution method for the time-dependent transit assignment problem with vehicle capacity constraints. A two-level, simulation-based methodology is proposed, which finds the least cost hyperpaths at the upper level and performs the assignment of transit travelers on the hyperpaths at the lower level. The detailed simulation of travelers and vehicles at the lower level allows modelers to capture transit network complexities such as transfers/missed connections, receiving a seat/standing and boarding/being rejected to board. This 'hard' implementation of vehicle capacity constraints at the lower level is aggregated into 'soft constraints' at the upper level for the least cost hyperpath calculation. Using a gap-based assignment procedure, user equilibrium is reached on large-scale networks in a computationally efficient manner. The algorithm is tested on the large-scale Chicago Transit Authority network. The gap-based approach outperforms the commonly used method of successive averages approach in terms of rate of convergence and quality of results. Furthermore, sensitivity analyses with respect to network parameters illustrate the robustness of the proposed two-level solution procedure. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 147. A simulation-based multiclass, multimodal traffic assignment model with departure time for evaluating traffic control plans of planned special events
1. Lin, Yun-Zhu; Chen, Wei-Hao
2. TRANSP RES PROC
> Different types of traffic control plans can be proposed to reduce the traffic impact of planned special events. The simulationbased, multi- class, multi- modal traffic assignment model with departure time windows can be used to forecast the occurrence time and the level of traffic congestion produced by a planned special event. Using Cube Voyager, a mesoscopic and systematic assessment tool is developed to explore participant behaviours of planned special event for mode and departure time window choices, evaluate event scenarios, and duplicate what happened during previous planned special events for a better understanding of the related issues. Peak traffic volumes and traffic congestion generated by the planned special event are successfully estimated in this study. The impacts of a planned special event and the mitigation measures for various traffic control plans are also established successfully in this study. How far restrictions on turning movements are needed, when traffic control needs to start, and what value there is in the headway of feeder buses needs are also determined in these stage-by-stage traffic control plans. (C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
### 158. Route Planning Methodology with Four-step Model and Dynamic Assignments
1. Horvath, Marton Tamas; Matrai, Tamas; Toth, Janos
2. TRANSP RES PROC
> Nowadays plenty of navigation and route guidance methodologies are available, based on real-time traffic information collected from technologies that have not been originally developed to measure road traffic parameters, for example, cellular and GPS data of users' mobile phones and their current travel demands. Traditional traffic estimation methodologies, such as the four-step model, are not frequently employed. This way, reliable traffic data can only be obtained for those areas where there are enough users. In our paper, we present a route guidance methodology that combines current transportation demands with the results of the traditional four-step model. The predicted traffic state of the network is calculated for every fifteen minutes of the day by using a dynamic assignment with predefined static demand matrices as a first assignment. When travelers use the route suggestion system, their demands are collected in an actual demand matrix for the same time interval. This matrix is then combined with the original static demand matrix for this period and then allocated to the network as a second assignment. The real-time traffic disruptions on the network are also taken into account. Users will be provided with route suggestions based on the combination of the results of the two assignments. The methodology is tested with real static demand and network data of Budapest, using an integrated multimodal transport model maintained by the BKK Centre for Budapest Transport. The actual demands are simulated, modelling various traffic situations.(C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
### 166. Application of smart card data in validating a large-scale multi-modal transit assignment model
1. Tavassoli, Ahmad; Mesbah, Mahmoud; Hickman, Mark
2. PUBLIC TRANSPORT
> The accuracy of transit assignment plays an important role in the successful design and operation of a transit system. The majority of previous studies on validating transit assignment models has used limited survey data or has lacked a large-scale multimodal and high quality dataset. Considering the advantages of smart card [automatic fare collection (AFC)] systems, the aims of this study are to put forward a methodological framework to validate existing transit assignment models and to quantify the performance of these models. Our study combines data from three sources: the General Transit Feed Specification, an AFC system, and a strategic transport model from a large-scale multimodal public transport network, namely the South-East Queensland (SEQ) network in Australia. The AFC system in SEQ has provided a very large and highly accurate dataset on passenger boardings and alightings for the three transit modes of bus, rail and ferry. Following a data analysis, an origin-destination trip matrix is estimated for the AM peak period using AFC data as an input to the transit assignment model. Then, the results of the transit assignment model are compared with the actual passengers' route choices over the same period, at different levels of aggregation. The model performance is quantified by each route (and direction), by each segment of each route (and direction), and by each stop. The results indicate that relatively tighter thresholds are required to validate the transit assignment at the segment level than at the stop level. Furthermore, the validation results indicate that the greatest error is realized for the bus mode, while the level of accuracy in the rail mode is the best. The results suggest a segment-level analysis should be used as the most useful level of aggregation for future calibration and validation of transit assignment models.
### 173. Remote park-and-ride network equilibrium model and its applications
1. Liu, Zhiyuan; Chen, Xinyuan; Meng, Qiang; Kim, Inhi
2. TRANSPORT RES B-METH
> Existing park-and-ride (P&R) sites are usually located near a train/bus station where construction and operation costs are considerably high. Thus, this paper proposes a new P&R service mode, Remote P&R (RPR), where the car park locates in a suburban area with lower land value. Dedicated express bus service is used to connect this site and a nearby train station. To quantitatively evaluate the impacts of RPR on the network flows, a combined modal split and traffic assignment model (CMSTA) is developed, where a cross-nested logit (CNL) model is adopted to cope with the mode similarity. The problem is formulated as a convex programming model and solved by the Evans algorithm, and then extended to asymmetric path-based cases, where a variational inequality (VI) model is built and solved by a self-adaptive gradient projection (SAGP) algorithm. Taking the CMSTA as the lower level and multimodal stochastic system optimum (MSSO) as the objective, we further develop a mathematical programming model with equilibrium constraints (MPEC) for the optimal network design of RPR. Based on an origin-based reformulation of the MPEC model, an exact solution method based on the nonlinear valid inequalities (NVI) is applied. Numerical examples demonstrate that the RPR services can significantly influence network users' travel decisions, promote the usage of public transportation and mitigate traffic congestion in the congested area of metropolitan cities. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 178. Range-Constrained Traffic Assignment with Multi-Modal Recharge for Electric Vehicles
1. Zhang, Xiang; Rey, David; Waller, S. Travis; Chen, Nathan
2. NETW SPAT ECON
> Plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) are sustainable alternatives to internal combustion engine vehicles thanks to the use of environmentally-friendly electric energy and the reduction of off-gas emissions. One of the major concerns associated with the adoption of PEVs is the distance limit, i.e. the fact that PEVs may not be able to complete trips without recharging. In this study, we propose to model the assignment of mixed-vehicular traffic of PEVs with two different charging capabilities accounting for PEV range constraints. We consider two recharge modes: charging stations with recharge time and modern charging lanes where PEVs are recharged automatically by traversing the lanes. The main objective of this study is to explore the influences of multi-modal recharge service provision on individual trips and network performance. First, a network transformation method is proposed to incorporate recharge decisions within the PEV route choice model. Second, we develop a novel convex programming formulation for mixed-vehicular traffic assignment accounting for en-route multi-modal recharge, derive mathematical properties and propose solution algorithms. In this rich traffic assignment framework, PEV route choice is represented as a resource-constrained shortest path subproblem with recharge time and we identify a suitable exact algorithm to solve this subproblem during the assignment process. Finally, computational experiments are conducted to demonstrate the performance of the proposed models and algorithms. The numerical results reveal that the incorporation of PEV multi-modal recharge has a significant impact on both route choice strategies and equilibrium flow patterns, wherein influencing factors include the distance limit, deployment of charging stations and charging lanes, and recharge time. In addition, we identify counter-intuitive configurations with regard to the way range constraints and recharge time reshape the equilibrium network flows.
### 180. A general formulation for multi-modal dynamic traffic assignment considering multi-class vehicles, public transit and parking
1. Pi, Xidong; Ma, Wei; Qian, Zhen (Sean)
2. TRANSPORT RES C-EMER
> Travel behavior and travel cost in modern urban transportation systems are impacted by many aspects including heterogeneous traffic (private cars, freight trucks, buses, etc.) on roads, parking availability near destinations, and travel modes available in the network, such as solo-driving, carpooling, ride-hailing, public transit, and park-and-ride. Managing such a complex multi-modal system requires a holistic modeling framework of transportation network flow in terms of both passenger flow and vehicular flow. In this paper, we formulate and solve for spatio-temporal passenger and vehicular flows in a general multi-modal network explicitly considering multi-class vehicles, parking facilities, and various travel modes. Vehicular flows, namely cars, trucks, and buses, are integrated into a holistic dynamic network loading (DNL) model. Travel behavior of passenger demand on modes and routes choices is encapsulated by a multi-layer nested logit model. We formulate the multi-modal dynamic user equilibrium (MMDUE) that can be cast into a Variational Inequality (VI) problem. A simple flow solution performed at the origin-destination level and based on the gradient projection is derived from the KKT conditions and shown to efficiently solve for the VI problem on large-scale networks. Numerical experiments are conducted on a multi-modal network in the Pittsburgh region along with sensitivity analysis with respect to demand and management strategies. We show that many factors including the total passenger demand, parking prices, transit fare, and ride-sharing impedance can effectively impact the system performance and individual user costs. Experiments on a large-scale multi-modal network in Fresno, California also show our model and solution algorithm have satisfactory convergence performance and computational efficiency.
### 182. Smart card data-centric replication of the multi-modal public transport system in Singapore
1. Liu, Xiaodong; Zhou, Yuan; Rau, Andreas
2. J TRANSP GEOGR
> This paper proposes an innovative method of replicating the multi-modal public transport system in Singapore with high precision using smart card database. It replicates the operation of public transport system with known exogenous passenger demand and provides many operational details, including passenger inter-modal trip chains, operational timetable, and detailed transfer behaviour. The paper elaborates on the methodology of the replication including data cleaning, filtering, processing and converting the collected data to meaningful information such as bus journey trajectories and metro system timetable. Thereafter, actualised passenger trip chains are directly assigned to the replicated public transport supply. The resulting replication covers almost 96% of trips made in public transport in Singapore. It provides solid quantitative information on several aspects to support decision making, including precise temporal and spatial travel demand analysis, transfer pattern analysis, traffic condition investigation and bus utilisation analysis.
### 187. Data-driven stochastic transit assignment modeling using an automatic fare collection system
1. Cheon, Seung Hoon; Lee, Changju; Shin, Seongil
2. TRANSPORT RES C-EMER
> In modern urban transit networks, buses and subways are not distinguished as different modes of transportation; this makes it challenging to analyze travel behaviors with multiple modes for the purpose of developing policies and plans. With the introduction of Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) systems, these modes are operated along a complex of links and nodes that constitute a multimodal transit network. Methods for analyzing travel behaviors in mass transit have been developed, but previous approaches fail to adequately reflect travel behaviors and network features (e.g., transfers, mode and route preferences). To overcome such limitations, this research proposes a smart card data-based analytical method with which travel behaviors can be efficiently and accurately examined. AFC systems provide a tremendous amount of data that contain detailed trip information, and using these data reinforces the reliability of the proposed data driven method. The proposed method of analysis involves four core processes: establishing a scheme for how multiple transit modes can be integrated into one multimodal transit network on the basis of information derived from the AFC system, selecting feasible paths, assigning trips using a stochastic approach, and verifying analytical results by comparing them with findings from trip datasets. This method was used to analyze monthly smart card data collected from the AFC system in 2009 in the greater Seoul area. Multimodal transit networks were constructed from 34,852 bus stops and 539 subway stations using smart card data, and in total, 3,614,875 trips were used in the analysis. The final model for stochastic transit assignment was developed using the proposed method, which was verified by comparing actual and assigned trips. The proposed method exhibits high accuracy (83.93%) and a high R-square value (0.981), which supports the strength of the proposed stochastic transit assignment model. The findings reveal new interesting research directions for exploration, such as developing more disaggregated models (e.g., for specific regions, times, and users), considering detailed transfer features (e.g., transferable boundaries, transfer facilities, and transfer times), confirming the method's applicability by testing it in other cities, and incorporating both multimodal transit and road networks into the proposed model.
### 189. A New Multi-Layer Distributed Approach for a Multi-objective Planning Problem
1. Mnif, Mouna; Bouamama, Sadok
2. PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
> This paper introduces a new distributed approach to solve multi-objective planning problem applied to multimodal transport network planning (MTNP) problem. In this problem, the commodities should be transported on the international network by at least two different transport modes. The main goal is to find the best multimodal transportation modes and itineraries. The aim of the new approach has assured us that a distributed optimization. We split the MTNP problem into two sub-problems. These sub-problems are the assignment and the planning problems. Each sub-problem is solved at a corresponding layer. Each layer is executed by an agent. These agents interact, collaborate and communicate together to solve the MTNP problem. In this paper, we contribute by introducing a multi-layer distributed approach to solve real case's problems. Firstly, we define the MTNP problem as a distributed constraint satisfaction multi-criteria optimization problem (DCSMOP). Secondly, we show that the split of the main problem reduces the computational complexity and the communication between the planner agent and the modes agents lead to faster convergence. The experimental results are proof of this work efficiently. This method proves their efficiency, according to the complexity of the problem and the exchange of information, the computational time and the solution quality. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/) Peer-review under responsibility of KES International.
### 190. A Multi-mode Two-Level Transportation Model Based On Network Vulnerability
1. Hu Wen-jun; Zhou Xi-zhao
2. nan
> Traffic network assignment under road network vulnerability and traffic congestion has become a hot topic for many researchers in recent years. Starting from the complex network characteristics of urban roads and multi-mode traffic network assignment, this paper establishes a multi-mode bilevel transportation model based on network vulnerability which can better reflect different path choice behaviour in a vulnerable network. The upper level is a function of maximizing the capacity of a road network under the investment constraints of the traffic authorities. Its purpose is to minimize the impact of the network operation efficiency and performance after the links or paths are damaged. The lower level is a multi-mode traffic network equilibrium model, which is essentially a traveler behavior assignment problem. Finally, a numerical example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the multimodal traffic model based on vulnerability. The analysis results show that the two-level model considering vulnerability index reduces the impact of abnormal events on the performance of road network, and is conducive to the establishment of a more reliable and stable road network.
### 192. Open-Source Public Transportation Mobility Simulation Engine DTALite-S: A Discretized Space-Time Network-Based Modeling Framework for Bridging Multi-agent Simulation and Optimization
1. Tong, Lu; Pan, Yuyan; Shang, Pan; Guo, Jifu; Xian, Kai; Zhou, Xuesong
2. URBAN RAIL TRANSIT
> Recently, an open-source light-weight dynamic traffic assignment (DTA) package, namely DTALite, has been developed to allow a rapid utilization of advanced dynamic traffic analysis capabilities. Aiming to bridge the modeling gaps between multi-agent simulation and optimization in a multimodal environment, we further design and develop DTALite-S to simplify the traffic flow dynamic representation details in DTALite for future extensions. We hope to offer a unified modeling framework with inherently consistent space-time network representations for both optimization formulation and simulation process. This paper includes three major modeling components: (1) mathematic formulations to describe traffic and public transportation simulation problem on a spacetime network; (2) transportation transition dynamics involving multiple agents in the optimization process; (3) an alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM)-based modeling structure to link different features between multi-agent simulation and optimization used in transportation. This unified framework can be embedded in a Lagrangian relaxation method and a time-oriented sequential simulation procedure to handle many general applications. We carried out a case study by using this unified framework to simulate the passenger traveling process in Beijing subway network which contains 18 urban rail transit lines, 343 stations, and 52 transfer stations. Via the ADMM-based solution approach, queue lengths at platforms, in-vehicle congestion levels and absolute deviation of travel times are obtained within 1560 seconds. The case study indicate that the open-source DTALite-S integrates simulation and optimization procedure for complex dynamic transportation systems and can efficiently generate comprehensive space-time traveling status.
### 199. Calibrating a transit assignment model using smart card data in a large-scale multi-modal transit network
1. Tavassoli, Ahmad; Mesbah, Mahmoud; Hickman, Mark
2. TRANSPORTATION
> This paper describes a practical automated procedure to calibrate and validate a transit assignment model. An optimization method based on particle swarm algorithm is adopted to minimize a defined error term. This error term which is based on the percentage of root mean square error and the mean absolute percent error encompasses deviation of model outputs from observations considering both segment level as well as the mode level and can be applied to a large scale network. This study is based on the frequency-based assignment model using the concept of optimal strategy while any transit assignment model can be used in the proposed methodological framework. Lastly, the model is validated using another weekday data. The proposed methodology uses automatic fare collection (AFC) data to estimate the origin-destination matrix. This study combines data from three sources: the general transit feed specification, AFC, and a strategic transport model from a large-scale multimodal public transport network. The South-East Queensland (SEQ) network in Australia is used as a case study. The AFC system in SEQ has voluminous and high quality data on passenger boardings and alightings across bus, rail and ferry modes. The results indicate that the proposed procedure can successfully develop a multi-modal transit assignment model at a large scale. Higher dispersions are seen for the bus mode, in contrast to rail and ferry modes. Furthermore, a comparison is made between the strategies used by passengers and the generated strategies by the model between each origin and destination to get more insights about the detailed behaviour of the model. Overall, the analysis indicates that the AFC data is a valuable and rich source in calibrating and validating a transit assignment model.
### 202. The disruption transport model: computing user delays resulting from infrastructure failures for multi-modal passenger & freight traffic
1. van der Tuin, Marieke S.; Pel, Adam J.
2. EUR TRANSP RES REV
> Transport infrastructure owners are moving from reactive toward proactive infrastructure management. This involves computation of costs associated with failure or maintenance, including expected transport delays. These delays are often computed by multiplying additional travel time by the number of travellers. However, this does not reflect the process of decision-making by travellers using the infrastructure asset, such as mode choices, departure time changes and trip cancellations to reduce time wasted in a traffic jam. Therefore, we introduce a multi-modal transport model that simulates travellers' behaviour after a large-scale infrastructure failure at a critical node in the European TEN-T network. We use a novel approach of modelling the region around the infrastructure disruption in a very detailed manner, whereas the rest of Europe is modelled in a more basic way. This enables us to model impacts of disruptions in high detail, whereas also effects throughout Europe are considered, within reasonable computation time.
### 207. Calibration of a transit route choice model using revealed population data of smartcard in a multimodal transit network
1. Kim, Ikki; Kim, Hyoung-Chul; Seo, Dong-Jeong; Kim, Jung In
2. TRANSPORTATION
> One of the major objectives of this study is to provide more realistic and accurate results related to transit passenger's route choice behavior by using population data of revealed preference from smartcard transaction records. The smartcard data of the Seoul city provides both boarding and alighting location and time, which can make possible to trace each passenger's actually used path trajectory with close to 100% market penetration of smartcard usage. This study built an abstract transit network with representative nodes by aggregating all near-by bus stops within walkable distance and with abstract paths by aggregating lines for a specific OD pair that run the same trajectory links by same transit modes. This complex and huge-scale transit network allowed to analyze the route choice behavior of transit passengers in a multimodal transit system that could not be found from the data of relatively small-size cities. This study selected OD pairs which had two or more alternative paths in order to analyze choice behavior requiring a plural alternative choice set. The number of the selected OD pairs are 124,393 pairs that are 33.9% of whole OD pairs that has two or more trip records. The calibration result showed that it is good statistically and logically to include the six explanatory variables in the utility function of the multinomial Logit model. Those are in-vehicle travel time, out-of-vehicle travel time, transfer penalty index, travel time reliability measure, and path circuity index.
### 208. Integration between activity-based demand models and multimodal assignment: Some empirical evidences
1. Cipriani, E.; Crisalli, U.; Gemma, A.; Mannini, L.
2. CASE STUD TRANSP POL
> Aiming at supporting decision makers in transport policy choices, transport models used for decades the trip-based approach for travel demand forecasts. This approach, despite suited to peak hours modelling where systematic trips are predominant, suffers the limits of not being related to the sequence of activities usually undertaken in real day-life. Differently, in the Activity Based Models (ABM) the travel demand is explicitly modelled as the result of individuals' involvement in different activities in different times and locations. The use of such models is recommended when complex trip chains connected to the multiple daily activities that characterise today's life have to be taken into account, even if the integration with other sub-models (particularly with the assignment) within the whole transport modelling procedure has to be carefully considered. For this reason, this paper focuses on the integration between ABM and transport assignment by investigating the multimodal demand-supply interaction. Specifically, the consistency between ABM and assignment models is studied proposing a methodology that can be applied to large real size networks. It is based on a multimodal static equilibrium assignment, which is easy-to-use and less time consuming with respect to a Dynamic Traffic Assignment (DTA), allowing a better estimation of the modal splits between alternative transport modes. Such a model also considers (road) congestion and (transit) crowding phenomena, as well as the multimodal network performances are estimated by taking into account the interaction between different modes sharing the same network facilities. The goodness of the proposed approach is investigated through the convergence analysis of both the entire integration procedure and its individual components (ABM and assignment) for a better transport simulation in urban areas. The application to an urban multimodal network of real-size dimensions (Rome) is presented to show the promising results of this research.
### 210. Temporal validation of a multimodal transit assignment model
1. Rahbar, Mohadeseh; Hickman, Mark; Mesbah, Mahmoud; Tavassoli, Ahmad
2. CASE STUD TRANSP POL
> With the increasing demand and range of urban mobility, public transport systems are playing an increasingly important role in providing people with efficient and affordable access to education, employment, markets, and other key services. Public transport planners can predict passenger loads and levels of service by using transit assignment models. Therefore, having a consistent transit assignment model has become an important issue. In addition, estimating the path choice factors, considering that network cost attributes might be non-deterministic, is complicated. In view of these, this paper adapted a transit assignment model, based on the Bayesian Model proposed in the authors' recent study, to validate the results of the model for multimodal transit networks under uncertainty and random variations of path choice parameters. In that model, path choices are represented by a multinomial logit model, and its coefficients are estimated via a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method. In this paper, the path choice parameters of the model are first calibrated by the individual travel history data in the AM peak period, and then are used to predict the passenger flow on different paths in the PM peak period. Second, based on the percentage error between each posterior estimate and the actual observation from AFC data on the segment level, the path segments are categorized into four groups. Then, by defining the segment attributes, the strengths and weaknesses of the model are analysed for the four groups.
### 211. Integrated simulation-based dynamic traffic and transit assignment model for large-scale network
1. Kamel, Islam; Shalaby, Amer; Abdulhai, Baher
2. CAN J CIVIL ENG
> Although the traffic and transit assignment processes are intertwined, the interactions between them are usually ignored in practice, especially for large-scale networks. In this paper, we build a simulation-based traffic and transit assignment model that preserves the interactions between the two assignment processes for the large-scale network of the Greater Toronto Area during the morning peak. This traffic assignment model is dynamic, user-equilibrium seeking, and includes surface transit routes. It utilizes the congested travel times, determined by the dynamic traffic assignment, rather than using predefined timetables. Unlike the static transit assignment models, the proposed transit model distinguishes between different intervals within the morning peak by using the accurate demand, transit schedule, and time-based road level-of-service. The traffic and transit assignment models are calibrated against actual field observations. The resulting dynamic model is suitable for testing different demand management strategies that impose dynamic changes on multiple modes simultaneously.
### 215. A many-to-many assignment game and stable outcome algorithm to evaluate collaborative mobility-as-a-service platforms
1. Pantelidis, Theodoros P.; Chow, Joseph Y. J.; Rasulkhani, Saeid
2. TRANSPORT RES B-METH
> As Mobility as a Service (MaaS) systems become increasingly popular, travel is changing from unimodal trips to personalized services offered by a platform of mobility operators. Evaluation of MaaS platforms depends on modeling both user route decisions as well as operator service and pricing decisions. We adopt a new paradigm for traffic assignment in a MaaS network of multiple operators using the concept of stable matching to allocate costs and determine prices offered by operators corresponding to user route choices and operator service choices without resorting to nonconvex bilevel programming formulations. Unlike our prior work, the proposed model allows travelers to make multimodal, multi-operator trips, resulting in stable cost allocations between competing network operators to provide MaaS for users. An algorithm is proposed to efficiently generate stability conditions for the stable outcome model. Extensive computational experiments demonstrate the use of the model to handling pricing responses of MaaS operators in technological and capacity changes, government acquisition, consolidation, and firm entry, using the classic Sioux Falls network. The proposed algorithm replicates the same stability conditions as explicit path enumeration while taking only 17 seconds compared to explicit path enumeration timing out over 2 hours. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
### 216. A modelling platform for optimizing time-dependent transit fares in large-scale multimodal networks
1. Kamel, Islam; Shalaby, Amer; Abdulhai, Baher
2. TRANSPORT POLICY
> With the continuous growth of urban areas around the world, overcrowding in large transit networks has become a persistent problem, with far-reaching impacts similar to those caused by congestion in large road networks. Moreover, instead of serving as a relief for large transportation systems, congested transit networks have increased delay-related traffic and transit costs. In light of these problems, cities seek cost-effective and relatively fast-to-implement strategies to mitigate transit system congestion, one of which is time-based fare structures. By implementing time-based fares, the transit demand may shift out of the congested peak periods, easing transit travel conditions. Although time-based fares are already in use in some transportation systems, their implementation is usually based on simplified what-if analyses. Such analyses of fare structures in previous studies have lacked a comprehensive evaluation of people's responses to these fares and is usually applied to simple or sometimes hypothetical transportation networks. Therefore, this paper presents a platform for analyzing and optimizing time-based transit fares in large networks, taking into consideration the effects of these fares on people's choices of mode, departure time, and route in addition to the interactions between transit vehicles and general traffic. As a case study, the largest metropolitan area in Canada, the Greater Toronto Area, is tested. The results show that the optimal time-based fares help spread the transit demand to the shoulders of the peak. However, the savings in weighted average multimodal door-to-door travel time over the whole network are slightly small compared to the large increase in peak-hour fares.
### 235. Evolution of multimodal final user equilibrium considering public transport network design history
1. Ameli, Mostafa; Lebacque, Jean Patrick; Leclercq, Ludovic
2. TRANSPORTMETRICA B
> Analysing the properties of a network equilibrium can help to have a better view about network state, robustness, and the effect of any variation in the network. This study investigated the impacts of network design history on day-to-day multimodal user equilibrium. In particular, we analyze the long-term evolution of the network, including opening new multimodal options and its impacts on the final network equilibrium. First, the analysis focuses on static network loading with different successive configurations. Then, a more realistic setting is studied by simulation. A large-scale multimodal network with the flexible opening over time of three possible transport facilities shows that the final equilibrium is not unique; more importantly, significant differences can be observed in public transportation occupancy, while user equilibrium is enforced in all situations. Some solutions prove to be better from the collective viewpoint (shorter total travel time), thus giving new insight into public transport planning.
