## {A probabilistic multipath traffic assignment algorithm which obviates pathenumeration}
### 1971
> IN MOST widely used traffic assignment models, all trips between a fixed origin and destination are assigned to the links constituting a single shortest connecting path.$ This latter tech- nique has been designated “all-or-nothing” assignment. Due to the effects of trip volumes on travel time and the tripmaker's non-deterministic choice function on route selection, all-or-nothing assignment is known to contradict actual trip behavior, and the link volumes these traffic assignment models output are sometimes inaccurate to the point of compromis- ing the transportation planner's design decisions.
## {Some developments in equilibrium traffic assignment}
### 1980
> A network optimization problem is formulated which yields a probabilistic equilibrated traffic assignment incorporating congestion effects and which as a special case, reduces to a user optimized equilibrium solution. In the resulting model, path choice is determined by a logit formula in which path costs are functions of the assigned flows. The article also demonstrates the similarity between some fixed demand incremental methods of traffic assignment and the minimization problem associated with computing the user equilibrium assignment. {\textcopyright} 1980, All rights reserved.
## {Traffic Equilibrium and Variational Inequalities}
### 1980
> We consider the general traffic equilibrium network model where the travel cost on each link of the transportation network may depend on the flow on this as well as other links of the network. The model has been designed in order to handle situations where there is interaction between traffic on different links (e.g., two-way streets, intersections) or between different modes of transportation on the same link. For this model, we use the techniques of the theory of variational inequalities to establish existence of a traffic equilibrium pattern, to design an algorithm for the construction of this pattern and to derive estimates on the speed of convergence of the algorithm.
